email.md, before:

# Configure email on Arch Linux

## Configure mutt

Clone mutt-wizard script:
```
git clone https://github.com/LukeSmithxyz/mutt-wizard.git ~/.config/mutt
```

Run mutt-wizard script:
```
./mutt-wizard.sh
```

Fetch email with:
```
offlineimap
```

And start neomutt with:
```
neomutt
```

## Configure sup

Unfortunatelly, sup only works with Ruby version 2.3.3. You will have to install it manually as Arch moved to newer versions of Ruby. First, install Ruby Version Manager (RVM). Make sure you have both curl and git installed, then download rvm script:
```
curl -L get.rvm.io > rvm-install
```

Install rvm script:
```
bash < ./rvm-install
```

Put the following in your `.bashrc` to enable rvm in each new terminal session:
```
[[ -s "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm" ]] && source "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm"
```

Install Ruby version 2.3.3, xapian-ruby and sup:
```
rvm install 2.3.3
rvm 2.3.3 do gem install xapian-ruby
rvm 2.3.3 do gem install sup
```

To make sure sup is always run with Ruby version 2.3.3 put the following in your `.bashrc`:
```
alias sup='rvm 2.3.3 do sup'
```

Commit message:

Update dependencies for installing mutt through mutt-wizard

email.md, after:

# Configure email on Arch Linux

## Install mutt through the mutt-wizard script

Install dependencies for mutt-wizard:
```
sudo pacman -Syu dialog neomutt offlineimap msmtp
```

Optionally, you can also install notmuch for searching your email (wizard will set it to `Ctrl+f`):
```
sudo pacman -Syu notmuch
```

Clone mutt-wizard script:
```
git clone https://github.com/LukeSmithxyz/mutt-wizard.git ~/.config/mutt
```

Run mutt-wizard script:
```
./mutt-wizard.sh
```

Fetch email with:
```
offlineimap
```

And start neomutt with:
```
neomutt
```

## Configure sup

Unfortunatelly, sup only works with Ruby version 2.3.3. You will have to install it manually as Arch moved to newer versions of Ruby. First, install Ruby Version Manager (RVM). Make sure you have both curl and git installed, then download rvm script:
```
curl -L get.rvm.io > rvm-install
```

Install rvm script:
```
bash < ./rvm-install
```

Put the following in your `.bashrc` to enable rvm in each new terminal session:
```
[[ -s "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm" ]] && source "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm"
```

Install Ruby version 2.3.3, xapian-ruby and sup:
```
rvm install 2.3.3
rvm 2.3.3 do gem install xapian-ruby
rvm 2.3.3 do gem install sup
```

To make sure sup is always run with Ruby version 2.3.3 put the following in your `.bashrc`:
```
alias sup='rvm 2.3.3 do sup'
```
