vim.md, before:

# Vim text editor

Install vim text editor:
```
sudo pacman -Syu vim
```

However, in this way you will not get xorg clipboard support which is only available by installing gvim package which, in addition to standard vim cli editor also contains gvim GUI editor. The only downside is the installation of (potentially unneccessary) gtk libraries. To install gvim package:
```
sudo pacman -Syu gvim
``` 

You can set custom themes by downloading them and then putting them in `.vim/colors/`. For example a monokai theme:
```
mkdir -p .vim/colors
cd .vim/colors
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sickill/vim-monokai/master/colors/monokai.vim
```

You can enable the them by putting the following in your `.vimrc`:
```
syntax enable
colorscheme monokai
```

If you want to force syntax highlighting on an unsaved buffer, or on a file with wrong or unfamiliar extension, you can run:
```
syntax=python
```

To set line numbers and nice line breaks that break at the word boundary:
```
set number
set linebreak
```

Use clipboard register `+` for all yank, delete, change and put operations  which would normally go to the unnamed register:
```
set clipboard=unnamedplus
```

## NERDTree plugin

NERDTree plugin gives a filesystem viewer on a sidebar. You can install it through pacman:
```
sudo pacman -Syu vim-nerdtree
```

And run it within vim with:
```
:NERDTree
```
## How to exit and save

Quit the current window / override if modified: `:q`, `:q!`
Quit all open files: `:qa`
Save the current buffer / save and quit: `:w`, `:wq`
Write only lines 10 to 20 to a separate file (ommiting the filename overwrites the current file!): `:10,20w [FILE NAME]`
Pipe the buffer to the external command: `:w ! wc -l`
Append the buffer to some other file: `:w >> [FILE]`
If the file is already open in another buffer, use this: `:w ! cat >> [FILE]`

## Windows

Create a new window: `Ctrl+w n`
Close a window (corresponding buffer is still available!): `Ctrl+w q`
To switch between windows: `Ctrl+w w`
To move between windows: `Ctrl+w [ARROWS or hjkl movements]`

## Buffers

Create a split window with an unnamed buffer: `:new`
Create a vertically split window with an unnamed buffer: `:vnew`
Open an unnamed buffer in a current window: `:enew`
Open an unnamed buffer in a new tab: `:tabnew`
Open a buffer available in memory: `:b [BUFFER NAME]`
Go to next/previous buffer: `:bn,` `:bp`
Delete a buffer (close a file): `:bd`
List all available buffers in memory: `:buffers`

## Powerline and Airline status line

To install airline status line:
```
sudo pacman -Syu vim-airline vim-airline-themes
```

To install powerline status line:
```
sudo pacman -Syu powerline powerline-fonts powerline-vim
```

To enable it add this to `.vimrc`:
```
set laststatus=2
let g:powerline_pycmd="py3"
let g:airline_theme="dark"
let g:airline_powerline_fonts=1
let t_Co=256
```

## fzf fuzzy file finder

If you have fzf fuzzy file finder you probably already installed vim fzf plugin as an optional dependency. You can use `:FZF` command to search files and folder in the current directory, or add path to search, for example:
```
:FZF doc/note/evernote/
```

## Reading from stdin

Vim can read text from standard input. Just supply it with `-` as an argument instead of the actual file. For example:
```
ls | vim -
```

## Installing the surround plugin manually

surround.vim: quoting/parenthesizing made simple
<https://github.com/tpope/vim-surround>

Use vim's built-in package support to install surround package:
```
mkdir -p ~/.vim/pack/tpope/start
cd ~/.vim/pack/tpope/start
git clone https://tpope.io/vim/surround.git
vim -u NONE -c "helptags surround/doc" -c q
```

## Vim reference

Insert Mode: i, a, c
Visual Mode: v, V, <Ctrl-v>
Command-line Mode: :, /
Show status line indicating file name: <Ctrl-g>
Scroll down/up half a screen: <Ctrl-d>, <Ctrl-u>
 
## Shortcuts in insert mode

Delete back one character: <Ctrl-h>
Delete back one word: <Ctrl-w>
Delete back to the start of line: <Ctrl-u>
Interrupt the insert mode to insert exactly one command from the normal mode: <Ctrl-o>

### Operators

Change: c
Change the whole line: cc, S
Change the line from where you are at: C
Delete: d
Delete the whole line: dd
Swap case: ~
Make lowercase: gu
Make uppercase: gU
Filter to external program: !
Shift left: <
Shift right: >
Indent: =
Repeat the last command: .
Yank (copy): y
Yank the whole line: yy, Y
Paste: p
Join lines: J
Move line 1 to line 4: `:1m4`
Move current line one line down: `:m+1` `:m+`
Move current line one line up: `:m-2`
Move current line to after line 12: :m 12
Move lines 5, 6 and 7 to before first line: :5,7 0
Move lines 5, 6 and 7 to after last line: :5,7m $ 
Delete all lines matching a pattern: :g/pattern/d
Run ex command on all lines matching a pattern: g/pattern/norm i"

### Text objects

A word is a sequence of letters, digits, separated by various non-blank characters. WORD is a sequence of any characters separated by whitespaces.
Following sentence "tmp/var e.g." consists of four words but only two WORDS!

A word: aw
Inner word: iw
A WORD: aW
Inner WORD: iW
A paragraph: ap
Inner paragraph: ip
A bracket: ab
Inner bracket: ib
A tag block: at
Inner tag block: it
A sentence: as
Inner quotes: i"
A quotes: a"
Inner curly braces: i}
A curly braces: a} 

### Motions

Go forward by a word/WORD (beginning): w, W
Go forward by a word/WORD (end): e, E
Go backward by a word/WORD: b, B
Go down: j
Go up: k
Go left: h
Go right: l
Go up/down the display line: gk, gj
Go to first matching paren / bracket: %
Down to first non-blank char of line: [count]+
To end of line: [count]$
Go to the start of the next line: `+`
 
Move to end of line and switch to editing mode (Append): Shift+A
Move to the beginning of line and switch to editing mode (Insert): Shift+I
Move to beginning of the line: 0
Delete line and start editing at the beginning: Shift+S
Move to the end of the line: $

## Autocompletion and spelling suggestions

To autocomplete the text under the cursor in the Insert mode press Ctrl+p while typing.

To suggest spelling choices press Ctrl+n while typing.

## Registers

Registers that contains X primary selection: `"+`, `"*` 
Paste from a primary selection register: `"+p`
Copy to a primary selection register: `"+y`, `"*y`
Display registers: `:registers`, `:di`
Copy the content of the `"` register to the command line: `:<Ctrl-r>"`

## Surround plugin oneliners

Change double quotes to single: `csi"'`
Put double quotes on inner word: `ysiw"`
Delete double quotes: ds"
Sorround visual selection with double quotes: `S"`

## Vim oneliners 

Delete one word three times: `3dw`
Delete three words one time: `d3w`
Delete two words, repeated three times: `3d2w`
Change the next match (can be repeated with .): `cgn`
Substitute all occurrences across all lines: `:s/pattern/replacement/g`
Substitute all occurrences across all lines with confirmation: `:s/pattern/replacement/g`
Append semicolon at the end of each line in file: `:%normal A;`
Append semicolon at the beginning of each line in file: `:%normal I;`
Delete first word after first space on each line matching pattern: `:g/pattern/norm f de`
Copy all matching lines to the end of the file: `:g/pattern/co $`

Copy all matching lines by appending them to register a: `:let @a='' | %g/pattern/y A`
You can then paste them by: `"ap`

Move lines that match pattern after the last line in the file: `:g/pattern/m $` 
Copy lines that match pattern after the last line in the file: `:g/pattern/co $` 
Move the line containing pattern to one line before the current cursor: `:/pattern/m-1`
Move the line preceeding the line containing pattern to one line after the current cursor: `:/pattern/-1m+1`
See all lines containing the match pattern in the temporary buffer: `:g/pattern`

Search on all lines (`%`) and replace all occurrences (`g`): `:%s/search_pattern/replace_pattern/g`
Reuse the matched pattern in the replace section by using `&`: `:%s/pattern/"&"/g`
Reference captured group with escaped brackets `\(\)`: `:%s/^\(\w*) \w*/\1/g`

Delete all lines in a file (position at the start and delete until the end): `ggdG`

Delete/change all characters until the next occurrence (but not including) of pattern: `d/pattern`, `c/pattern`

Count the number of words and characters in the visual selection: `g Ctrl-g`

## Shortcuts in the command line

Cursor to the beginning/end of command line: `Ctrl b`, `Ctrl e`
Delete word before the cursor: `Ctrl w`
Delete characters between cursor to the end of line: `Ctrl u`
Insert contents of a register: `Ctrl r` (following by the name of the register, for example `"` which is the unnamed register with the last delete/yank)
Quit command line without executing: `Ctrl c`
If incsearch is set move forward/backward through the searches while typing search: `Ctrl g`, `Ctrl t`

## Reading from a shell

Read an output from a command from shell:
```
:r ! ls ~
```

Pipe the current buffer to the external command:
```
:w ! wc
```

For example, curl a cheat sheet from `cht.sh` service (with additional stripping of the color codes with sed):
```
:r ! curl cht.sh/python/lambda | sed 's/\x1b\[[0-9;]*m//g' 
```

Sort the current buffer in place:
```
:%!sort
```

Leave only the lines containing matching pattern: `:%!grep pattern`
View only matching lines in mini buffer: `:w ! grep pattern`
Arrange text in columns using `&` as a delimiter (and Linux column command): `:%!column -s '&' -t`

## CtrP fuzzy file finder

Install CtrlP fuzzy file finder plugin:
```
cd ~/.vim
git clone https://github.com/ctrlpvim/ctrlp.vim.git bundle/ctrlp.vim
```

Add to your .vimrc:
```
set runtimepath^=~/.vim/bundle/ctrlp.vim
```

You can now use `:CtrlP` command to fuzzy search the current directory or supply a path to search the subdirectory.
 
The default key mapping (in the Normal mode) for the CtrlP is `Ctrl+p`. In the Insert mode the same mapping is used for autocompletion! If you want to restrict the search while using the key binding you can first `:cd` into the directory.

Switch to searching buffers: `Ctrl+f` 
Navigate the results list: `Ctrl k`, `Ctrl j`
Open the selected entry in a new tab: `Ctrl t`
Open the selected entry in a new vertical/horizontal split: `Ctrl v`, `Ctrl x` 
Submit two or more dots `..` in search entry to go up a directory.

## Remove Arch based plugins and switch to Vundle

Having vim plugins installed through plugins makes them imposible to disable as they reside in the `\usr\share\vim\` directory. We will use Vindle instead to manage all our plugins. First, remove all pacman installed plugins:
```
sudo pacman -Rns powerline-vim vim-airline vim-airline-themes vim-molokai vim nerdtree
```

Leave powerline and powerline-fonts Arch packages so that you have nice powerline statusline for other programs if needed (for example, tmux) and a patched powerline fonts which you can use with your airline vim statusline.

Clone Vundle:
```
git clone https://github.com/VundleVim/Vundle.vim.git ~/.vim/bundle/Vundle.vim
```

Add the following at the beginning of your .vimrc:
```
set nocompatible
filetype off

set rtp+=~/.vim/bundle/Vundle.vim
call vundle#begin()

Plugin 'VundleVim/Vundle.vim'

" Put all your plugins here
Plugin 'vim-airline/vim-airline'

call vundle#end()            " required
filetype plugin indent on    " required
```

You can install plugins by running: `:PluginInstall`.

## vimdiff for file differences

You can diff two files with either of these commands:
```
vim -d FILE1 FILE2
vimdiff FILE1 FILE2
```

Or, inside vim, open the two files in a split window view (ideally horizontally with `:vnew`) and then run `:windo diffthis`.

Open a file for diffing the already openned file in a vertical split window: `:vert diffs FILE`

Commit message:

Update info on gvim and some useful vim shortcuts

vim.md, after:

# Vim text editor

Install vim text editor:
```
sudo pacman -Syu vim
```

However, in this way you will not get xorg clipboard support which is only available by installing gvim package which, in addition to standard vim cli editor also contains gvim GUI editor. The only downside is the installation of (potentially unneccessary) gtk libraries. To install gvim package:
```
sudo pacman -Syu gvim
``` 

You can set custom themes by downloading them and then putting them in `.vim/colors/`. For example a monokai theme:
```
mkdir -p .vim/colors
cd .vim/colors
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sickill/vim-monokai/master/colors/monokai.vim
```

You can enable the them by putting the following in your `.vimrc`:
```
syntax enable
colorscheme monokai
```

If you want to force syntax highlighting on an unsaved buffer, or on a file with wrong or unfamiliar extension, you can run:
```
syntax=python
```

To set line numbers and nice line breaks that break at the word boundary:
```
set number
set linebreak
```

Use clipboard register `+` for all yank, delete, change and put operations  which would normally go to the unnamed register:
```
set clipboard=unnamedplus
```

## NERDTree plugin

NERDTree plugin gives a filesystem viewer on a sidebar. You can install it through pacman:
```
sudo pacman -Syu vim-nerdtree
```

And run it within vim with:
```
:NERDTree
```

## How to exit and save

Quit the current window / override if modified: `:q`, `:q!`
Quit all open files: `:qa`
Save the current buffer / save and quit: `:w`, `:wq`
Write only lines 10 to 20 to a separate file (ommiting the filename overwrites the current file!): `:10,20w [FILE NAME]`
Pipe the buffer to the external command: `:w ! wc -l`
Append the buffer to some other file: `:w >> [FILE]`
If the file is already open in another buffer, use this: `:w ! cat >> [FILE]`

## Windows

Create a new window: `Ctrl+w n`
Close a window (corresponding buffer is still available!): `Ctrl+w q`
To switch between windows: `Ctrl+w w`
To move between windows: `Ctrl+w [ARROWS or hjkl movements]`

## Buffers

Create a split window with an unnamed buffer: `:new`
Create a vertically split window with an unnamed buffer: `:vnew`
Open an unnamed buffer in a current window: `:enew`
Open an unnamed buffer in a new tab: `:tabnew`
Open a buffer available in memory: `:b [BUFFER NAME]`
Go to next/previous buffer: `:bn,` `:bp`
Delete a buffer (close a file): `:bd`
List all available buffers in memory: `:buffers`

## Powerline and Airline status line

To install airline status line:
```
sudo pacman -Syu vim-airline vim-airline-themes
```

To install powerline status line:
```
sudo pacman -Syu powerline powerline-fonts powerline-vim
```

To enable it add this to `.vimrc`:
```
set laststatus=2
let g:powerline_pycmd="py3"
let g:airline_theme="dark"
let g:airline_powerline_fonts=1
let t_Co=256
```

## fzf fuzzy file finder

If you have fzf fuzzy file finder you probably already installed vim fzf plugin as an optional dependency. You can use `:FZF` command to search files and folder in the current directory, or add path to search, for example:
```
:FZF doc/note/evernote/
```

## Reading from stdin

Vim can read text from standard input. Just supply it with `-` as an argument instead of the actual file. For example:
```
ls | vim -
```

## Installing the surround plugin manually

surround.vim: quoting/parenthesizing made simple
<https://github.com/tpope/vim-surround>

Use vim's built-in package support to install surround package:
```
mkdir -p ~/.vim/pack/tpope/start
cd ~/.vim/pack/tpope/start
git clone https://tpope.io/vim/surround.git
vim -u NONE -c "helptags surround/doc" -c q
```

## Vim reference

Insert Mode: i, a, c
Visual Mode: v, V, <Ctrl-v>
Command-line Mode: :, /
Show status line indicating file name: <Ctrl-g>
Scroll down/up half a screen: <Ctrl-d>, <Ctrl-u>
Undo: u
Redo: <Ctrl-r>
 
## Shortcuts in insert mode

Delete back one character: <Ctrl-h>
Delete back one word: <Ctrl-w>
Delete back to the start of line: <Ctrl-u>
Interrupt the insert mode to insert exactly one command from the normal mode: <Ctrl-o>

### Operators

Change: c
Change the whole line: cc, S
Change the line from where you are at: C
Delete: d
Delete the whole line: dd
Swap case: ~
Make lowercase: gu
Make uppercase: gU
Filter to external program: !
Shift left: <
Shift right: >
Indent: =
Repeat the last command: .
Yank (copy): y
Yank the whole line: yy, Y
Paste: p
Join lines: J
Move line 1 to line 4: `:1m4`
Move current line one line down: `:m+1` `:m+`
Move current line one line up: `:m-2`
Move current line to after line 12: :m 12
Move lines 5, 6 and 7 to before first line: :5,7 0
Move lines 5, 6 and 7 to after last line: :5,7m $ 
Delete all lines matching a pattern: :g/pattern/d
Run ex command on all lines matching a pattern: g/pattern/norm i"

### Text objects

A word is a sequence of letters, digits, separated by various non-blank characters. WORD is a sequence of any characters separated by whitespaces.
Following sentence "tmp/var e.g." consists of four words but only two WORDS!

A word: aw
Inner word: iw
A WORD: aW
Inner WORD: iW
A paragraph: ap
Inner paragraph: ip
A bracket: ab
Inner bracket: ib
A tag block: at
Inner tag block: it
A sentence: as
Inner quotes: i"
A quotes: a"
Inner curly braces: i}
A curly braces: a} 

### Motions

Go forward by a word/WORD (beginning): w, W
Go forward by a word/WORD (end): e, E
Go backward by a word/WORD: b, B
Go down: j
Go up: k
Go left: h
Go right: l
Go up/down the display line: gk, gj
Go to first matching paren / bracket: %
Down to first non-blank char of line: [count]+
To end of line: [count]$
Go to the start of the next line: `+`
 
Move to end of line and switch to editing mode (Append): Shift+A
Move to the beginning of line and switch to editing mode (Insert): Shift+I
Move to beginning of the line: 0
Delete line and start editing at the beginning: Shift+S
Move to the end of the line: $

## Autocompletion and spelling suggestions

To autocomplete the text under the cursor in the Insert mode press Ctrl+p while typing.

To suggest spelling choices press Ctrl+n while typing.

## Registers

Registers that contains X primary selection: `"+`, `"*` 
Paste from a primary selection register: `"+p`
Copy to a primary selection register: `"+y`, `"*y`
Display registers: `:registers`, `:di`
Paste the content of the `"` register to the command line: `:<Ctrl-r>"`
Paste the content of the `+` register to the command line: `:<Ctrl-r>+`

## Surround plugin oneliners

Change double quotes to single: `csi"'`
Put double quotes on inner word: `ysiw"`
Delete double quotes: ds"
Sorround visual selection with double quotes: `S"`

## Vim oneliners 

Delete one word three times: `3dw`
Delete three words one time: `d3w`
Delete two words, repeated three times: `3d2w`
Change the next match (can be repeated with .): `cgn`
Substitute all occurrences across all lines: `:s/pattern/replacement/g`
Substitute all occurrences across all lines with confirmation: `:s/pattern/replacement/g`
Append semicolon at the end of each line in file: `:%normal A;`
Append semicolon at the beginning of each line in file: `:%normal I;`
Delete first word after first space on each line matching pattern: `:g/pattern/norm f de`
Copy all matching lines to the end of the file: `:g/pattern/co $`
Select the previously selected area: `gv`

Copy all matching lines by appending them to register a: `:let @a='' | %g/pattern/y A`
You can then paste them by: `"ap`

Move lines that match pattern after the last line in the file: `:g/pattern/m $` 
Copy lines that match pattern after the last line in the file: `:g/pattern/co $` 
Move the line containing pattern to one line before the current cursor: `:/pattern/m-1`
Move the line preceeding the line containing pattern to one line after the current cursor: `:/pattern/-1m+1`
See all lines containing the match pattern in the temporary buffer: `:g/pattern`

Search on all lines (`%`) and replace all occurrences (`g`): `:%s/search_pattern/replace_pattern/g`
Reuse the matched pattern in the replace section by using `&`: `:%s/pattern/"&"/g`
Reference captured group with escaped brackets `\(\)`: `:%s/^\(\w*) \w*/\1/g`

Delete all lines in a file (position at the start and delete until the end): `ggdG`

Delete/change all characters until the next occurrence (but not including) of pattern: `d/pattern`, `c/pattern`

Count the number of words and characters in the visual selection: `g Ctrl-g`

## Shortcuts in the command line

Cursor to the beginning/end of command line: `Ctrl b`, `Ctrl e`
Delete word before the cursor: `Ctrl w`
Delete characters between cursor to the end of line: `Ctrl u`
Insert contents of a register: `Ctrl r` (following by the name of the register, for example `"` which is the unnamed register with the last delete/yank)
Quit command line without executing: `Ctrl c`
If incsearch is set move forward/backward through the searches while typing search: `Ctrl g`, `Ctrl t`

## Reading from a shell

Read an output from a command from shell:
```
:r ! ls ~
```

Pipe the current buffer to the external command:
```
:w ! wc
```

For example, curl a cheat sheet from `cht.sh` service (with additional stripping of the color codes with sed):
```
:r ! curl cht.sh/python/lambda | sed 's/\x1b\[[0-9;]*m//g' 
```

Sort the current buffer in place:
```
:%!sort
```

Leave only the lines containing matching pattern: `:%!grep pattern`
View only matching lines in mini buffer: `:w ! grep pattern`
Arrange text in columns using `&` as a delimiter (and Linux column command): `:%!column -s '&' -t`

## CtrP fuzzy file finder

Install CtrlP fuzzy file finder plugin:
```
cd ~/.vim
git clone https://github.com/ctrlpvim/ctrlp.vim.git bundle/ctrlp.vim
```

Add to your .vimrc:
```
set runtimepath^=~/.vim/bundle/ctrlp.vim
```

You can now use `:CtrlP` command to fuzzy search the current directory or supply a path to search the subdirectory.
 
The default key mapping (in the Normal mode) for the CtrlP is `Ctrl+p`. In the Insert mode the same mapping is used for autocompletion! If you want to restrict the search while using the key binding you can first `:cd` into the directory.

Switch to searching buffers: `Ctrl+f` 
Navigate the results list: `Ctrl k`, `Ctrl j`
Open the selected entry in a new tab: `Ctrl t`
Open the selected entry in a new vertical/horizontal split: `Ctrl v`, `Ctrl x` 
Submit two or more dots `..` in search entry to go up a directory.

## Remove Arch based plugins and switch to Vundle

Having vim plugins installed through plugins makes them imposible to disable as they reside in the `\usr\share\vim\` directory. We will use Vindle instead to manage all our plugins. First, remove all pacman installed plugins:
```
sudo pacman -Rns powerline-vim vim-airline vim-airline-themes vim-molokai vim nerdtree
```

Leave powerline and powerline-fonts Arch packages so that you have nice powerline statusline for other programs if needed (for example, tmux) and a patched powerline fonts which you can use with your airline vim statusline.

Clone Vundle:
```
git clone https://github.com/VundleVim/Vundle.vim.git ~/.vim/bundle/Vundle.vim
```

Add the following at the beginning of your .vimrc:
```
set nocompatible
filetype off

set rtp+=~/.vim/bundle/Vundle.vim
call vundle#begin()

Plugin 'VundleVim/Vundle.vim'

" Put all your plugins here
Plugin 'vim-airline/vim-airline'

call vundle#end()            " required
filetype plugin indent on    " required
```

You can install plugins by running: `:PluginInstall`.

## vimdiff for file differences

You can diff two files with either of these commands:
```
vim -d FILE1 FILE2
vimdiff FILE1 FILE2
```

Or, inside vim, open the two files in a split window view (ideally horizontally with `:vnew`) and then run `:windo diffthis`.

Open a file for diffing the already openned file in a vertical split window: `:vert diffs FILE`

## gvim

If you installed gvim:
```
sudo pacman -Syu gvim
```

You can edit `.gvimrc` for custom GUI-specific options. A basic setup might look something like this:
```
set guioptions-=m  "remove menu bar
set guioptions-=T  "remove toolbar
set guioptions-=r  "remove right-hand scroll bar
set guioptions-=L  "remove left-hand scroll bar
set guifont=Hack\ 9
```

## Copy search matches

Hacks to copy search matches. Unfortunatelly there is no way to execute an operation on search matches, only on lines that match the pattern (with the `:g` and `:norm`).

<https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Copy_search_matches>
